---
lang: zh-CN
title: 7.6 Scripting and Programming
description: some description
---


## Section 7.6 Scripting and Programming

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What are scripts used for?
- What is a variable in a script?
- What are some shell processor types?
- What program is used in Windows to execute scripts?
- What is the software development life cycle?
- What are the two approaches to reverse engineering?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Identify programming languages
- Explain the software development life cycle
- Perform reverse engineering

The key terms for this section include:

**Key Terms and Definitions**

<table class="terms">
<caption>
  Key Terms and Definitions
</caption>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Term</th>
    <th>Definition</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Shell scripts</td>
    <td>
      Allows users and administrators to automate tasks using a scripting
      language like Bash or PowerShell.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Variables</td>
    <td>
      Holds reusable dynamic values and are foundational to the use of
      scripts.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Boolean operators</td>
    <td>Used to perform comparisons in scripts.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Metacharacters</td>
    <td>
      Characters that have special meaning to a computer program, such as
      shell.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Redirection</td>
    <td>
      Allows for the output of commands to be sent to other locations,
      such as a file or another program.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>PowerShell</td>
    <td>Windows program used to develop and execute scripts.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Extensible Markup Language (XML)</td>
    <td>
      A text-based markup language like HTML that uses tags derived from
      Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML). XML is used to transfer
      data.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)</td>
    <td>
      An object-oriented, event-driven programming language that enables
      website interaction (as opposed to HTML, which simply displays
      information).
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Windows Management Instrumentation Command line (WMIC)</td>
    <td>
      A powerful command line tool for performing administrative tasks and
      is well suited to scripting and automation. WMIC is part of the
      Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) framework.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Python</td>
    <td>
      An interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language
      used for a wide variety of purposes.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Regular expressions (regex)</td>
    <td>
      Powerful tool used in many programming languages for manipulating
      text and data.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Software development life cycle</td>
    <td>
      Process that helps ensure that programs are functional and secure.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Software assurance</td>
    <td>
      Customer confidence that software functions as it should and is free
      from exploitable vulnerabilities.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Reverse engineering</td>
    <td>
      The process of deconstructing software to reveal its design and
      code.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>


This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table>
<thead></thead>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA CySA+ CS0-003</td>
    <td>
      1.3 Given a scenario, use appropriate tools or techniques to
      determine malicious activity
      <ul>
        <li>
          Programming languages/scripting
          <ul>
            <li>JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)</li>
            <li>Extensible Markup Language (XML)</li>
            <li>Python</li>
            <li>PowerShell</li>
            <li>Shell script</li>
            <li>Regular expressions</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        2.1 Given a scenario, implement vulnerability scanning methods and
        concepts
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          Static vs. dynamic
          <ul>
            <li>Reverse engineering</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        2.5 Explain concepts related to vulnerability response, handling,
        and management
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          Secure coding best practices
          <ul>
            <li>Input validation</li>
            <li>Output encoding</li>
            <li>Session management</li>
            <li>Authentication</li>
            <li>Data protection</li>
            <li>Parameterized queries</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>Secure software development life cycle (SDLC)</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TestOut CyberDefense Pro</td>
    <td>
      4.3 Analyze Indicators of compromise
      <ul>
        <li>Examine applications for any signs of compromise</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>


### 7.6.1 Programming and Scripting Overview

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Scripting Languages 00:00-02:27
Developing scripts is a useful skill for anyone in the IT field, as scripts can be developed to automate specific tasks that are performed on a regular basis. The script can be developed using a variety of languages and platforms based on the Operating System. In this lesson, we'll look at some of the different platforms and languages we can use in developing our scripts. We'll also look at some situations where developing scripts can be useful.

A script is typically a text file with commands written in a specific scripting language. These commands are usually human-readable, and they efficiently perform repetitive tasks and even complex, data-driven tasks.

Generally, a scripting language is interpreted in real-time, line by line. A typical program must be compiled before running, meaning the code's text must be converted into binary code. Scripting languages are usually something a human can look at and interpret, whereas binary code is much more difficult to read.

One of the more popular scripting languages used today is Python. Python is a high-level, general-purpose programming language that emphasizes easy-to-read code. Python is an extremely versatile language that can be used for various purposes. One of the great features of Python is the large number of libraries that can be used to help adapt Python to practically any purpose.

In the Linux and Unix world, shell scripting is used extensively for automation and maintenance. Although there are several languages that fall under the term "shell scripting," the most common form of shell scripting is the Bourne Shell (sh).

Other shells include the Bourne Again Shell (bash), the Korn Shell (ksh), and the Z Shell (zsh). Each shell has its own syntax variation, but all are directly related to the Bourne Shell.

On a Windows system, we'll use PowerShell to develop and run scripts. PowerShell is like bash but uses different commands and syntax. PowerShell uses cmdlets—small, executable functions built into the language—and wraps them together to perform tasks. PowerShell can be used to automate a variety of tasks, such as adding a large number of users into Active Directory by referencing the data in a spreadsheet.

Scripting languages are also used to develop content on the internet. JavaScript Object Notation, or JSON, is an object-oriented, event-driven programming language that enables website interaction. With web applications becoming more prevalent, JSON has become one of the more popular languages on the internet.

Extensible Markup Language, or XML, is also used extensively on the internet. XML uses tags like HTML but is used to transfer data, not display it as HTML does.

Scripting Uses 02:27-03:17
Scripts and scripting languages are used for many tasks, including developing web content, software development, and automating network and system management tasks.

Scripts can also be used by a security analyst to automate scanning logs or automating complicated tasks in command line tools like Nmap. Attackers will also use scripts to automate their scanning and enumeration processes to exploit vulnerable hosts.

Automation saves systems administrators a lot of time. If a task can be reduced to collecting data, then all an admin needs to do is run a script that performs a series of single operations repeatedly until the task is completed.

One common use of scripting is adding users to Active Directory. Instead of adding users one at a time, a PowerShell script will use the data in a spreadsheet to create the accounts, saving time and automating this process.

Summary 03:17-03:34
That'll wrap up this lesson on scripting. In this lesson, we looked at some of the more common scripting languages you should be aware of including Python, bash, PowerShell, JSON, and XML. We then went over some examples of how scripts can be used in various areas to automate tasks.